FR #1056: Create json_object_format.md (#1383)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/attributes/object_format.md

# Object Format

Columns that provide complex, hierarchical information can be used in place of separate columns to support more dynamic structures that may change across rows, but where the simpler [*Key-Value Format*](#key-valueformat) may not be sufficient. Objects extend key-value pairs to add support for complex data types like arrays and nested key-value pairs. Objects are also referred to as maps, trees, or hashtables.

All complex JSON object columns defined in the FOCUS specification MUST follow the object formatting requirements listed below.

## Attribute ID

ObjectFormat

## Attribute Name

Object Format

## Description

Rules and formatting requirements for columns appearing in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) that convey data as complex, hierarchical objects.

## Requirements

> 

Reviewer: Discussed in Aug 25 Maintainers.  @ijurica suggests we should have a requirement that, for custom provider JSON Object columns, they MUST provide public documentation and/or schema metadata definition.

Author: Added a requirement for this

* Object Format columns MUST contain a serialized JSON string, consistent with the [ECMA 404](https://www.ecma-international.org/wp-content/uploads/ECMA-404_2nd_edition_december_2017.pdf) definition of an object.
* Object keys MUST be unique within an object.
* Object values MUST be one of the following types: number, string, `true`, `false`, array, object, or `null`.
* Object array elements MUST be one of the following types: number, string, or object.
* Object array elements MUST all use the same, consistent type.
* Object array elements MUST NOT be repeated.
* Object array elements MUST NOT be null.
* Objects MUST conform to all requirements of the corresponding column definition, which may specify or restrict the shape or contents of the Object.

> * Objects are RECOMMENDED to not exceed 3 levels of nesting.

Reviewer: Lots of conversation on nesting in Aug 25 Maintainers.  Need to align on nesting limit for this attribute.

Reviewer: This has been addressed.  Resolving!

> # Object Format

Reviewer: Should we call this `JSON Object` instead of `Object` to be more clear?  Or is `Object` truly sufficient?

Author: I originally had JSON Object, but changed it to Object. I put the reasoning in the change comments.
https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/1383#issuecomment-3217693454

Reviewer: Discussed and resolved.

> Columns that provide complex, hierarchical information can be used in place of separate columns to support more dynamic structures that may change across rows, but where the simpler [*Key-Value Format*](#key-valueformat) may not be sufficient. Objects extend key-value pairs to add support for complex data types like arrays and nested key-value pairs. Objects are also referred to as maps, trees, or hashtables.

Reviewer 2: The current version describes Object format as an alternative to separate columns, but it doesn’t really highlight cases where it’s the only viable option (for example, in negotiated build-up commitments where splitting records isn’t applicable). 

Here is a suggestion, though I’m sure it can be phrased better 😄 

```suggestion
Objects extend [*Key-Value Format*](#key-valueformat) to support complex data types such as arrays and nested key-value pairs. This format is used when additional replacement columns or the simpler Key-Value Format are not sufficient to represent the complex data structure accurately. It can also be used when grouping related data within a single record is preferred over splitting records. Objects are also referred to as maps, trees, or hashtables.
```

Author: I took this feedback, but ended up going a different direction with the rephrasing. Let me know what you think.

Reviewer: I think we can resolve this one...

## Attribute ID

ObjectFormat

## Attribute Name

Object Format

## Description

Rules and formatting requirements for columns appearing in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) that convey data as complex, hierarchical objects.

## Requirements

* Object Format columns MUST contain a serialized JSON string, consistent with the [ECMA 404](https://www.ecma-international.org/wp-content/uploads/ECMA-404_2nd_edition_december_2017.pdf) definition of an object.
* Object keys MUST be unique within an object.
* Object values MUST be one of the following types: number, string, `true`, `false`, array, object, or `null`.
* Object array elements MUST be one of the following types: number, string, or object.
* Object array elements MUST all use the same, consistent type.
* Object array elements MUST NOT be repeated.
* Object array elements MUST NOT be null.
* Objects MUST conform to all requirements of the corresponding column definition, which may specify or restrict the shape or contents of the Object.
* Objects included in provider-defined [custom columns](#column_handling:custom-column) MUST have their object schema documented by the provider.

> * Objects are RECOMMENDED to not exceed 3 levels of nesting.

Reviewer 2: Throughout the specification, RECOMMENDED is used only in presence-related requirements. All other requirements consistently use SHOULD and SHOULD NOT.

```suggestion
* Objects SHOULD NOT exceed 3 levels of nesting.
```

Reviewer: Committed and resolved.
